Add call and callView how-to (#1516)
iotaledger/iota-wiki: docs/build/isc/v1.0.0-rc.6/docs/how-tos/core-contracts/call-view.md

---
description: With call and callView you can interact with any core contract
image: /img/logo/WASP_logo_dark.png
tags:
  - magic contract
  - core
  - EVM
  - Ethereum
  - Solidity
  - ISC
---

# Interact with any Core contract

## About `call` and `callView`

The magic contract provides you with a solidity interface to the core contracts. Some functions like [`getL2BalanceBaseTokens`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCAccounts.md#getl2balancebasetokens) are wrapped in the magic contract directly, others you need to call yourself. You can do that with the [`call`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCSandbox.md#call) and [`callView`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCSandbox.md#callview) functions.

:::info WASM

> You can also use call and callView to interact with WASM contracts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use `call` and `callView` to interact with WASM contracts.
```

:::

## Example Code

1. Get the [`AgentID`](../../explanations/how-accounts-work/) from the sender by calling ISC.sandbox.getSenderAccount().

```solidity
ISCAgentID memory agentID = ISC.sandbox.getSenderAccount();
```

> 2. Initialize the parameters for the call by creating a new [`ISCDict`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCTypes.md#iscdict). As you can see in the docs, [`getl2balancenativetokens`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCAccounts.md#getl2balancenativetokens) takes two parameters. The Agent ID and the native token ID. So we have to create a dictionary with two key-value pairs. The key of the first pair(Agent ID) has to be `a` and the key for the second pair(native token ID) `N`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Initialize the parameters for the call by creating a new [`ISCDict`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCTypes.md#iscdict). As you can see in the docs, [`getl2balancenativetokens`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCAccounts.md#getl2balancenativetokens) takes two parameters.: the Agent ID and the native token ID. So, you have to create a dictionary with two key-value pairs. The key of the first pair (Agent ID) has to be `a` and the key for the second pair (native token ID) `N`.
```

```solidity
ISCDict memory params = ISCDict(new ISCDictItem[](2));
params.items[0] = ISCDictItem("a", agentID.data);
params.items[1] = ISCDictItem("N", nativeTokenID);
```

> 3. Now we can use [`callView`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCSandbox.md#callview) to call our contract. The first parameter is the core contract hname which we can get with the helper utility [`hn`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCUtil.md#hn) and the second parameter is the function we want to call. The last parameter is the dictionary with all function parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Now, you can use [`callView`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCSandbox.md#callview) to call our contract. The first parameter is the core contract `hname`, which we can get with the helper utility [`hn`](../../reference/magic-contract/ISCUtil.md#hn), and the second parameter is the function we want to call. The last parameter is the dictionary with all function parameters.
```

```solidity
ISCDict memory result = ISC.sandbox.callView(
    ISC.util.hn("accounts"),
    ISC.util.hn("balanceNativeToken"),
    params
);
```

> 4. Now we can either return or emit the result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Next, you can either return or emit the result.
```

```solidity
emit NativeTokenBalance(bytesToUint(result.items[0].value));
```

:::info Return Dictionary

> Keep in mind that the call and callView functions will always retun a dictionary. And the values of these dictionary are always of type byte, so you need to take care of converting it yourself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that the call and callView functions will always return a dictionary. The values of this dictionary are always of type byte, so you need to take care of converting it yourself.
```
